and i think
we're live
i think so okay well welcome everyone to
ipld
weekly sync for
[Music]
2021 so um
we are without vodka today but uh
everybody else is here so
let's get into it we're gonna go do a
quick stand up so
uh daniel you're first
cool so this is my first week back so i
haven't done
a lot yet i'm still ramping up the first
thing well what i did
right before i left for the holidays was
finish up the refactors for 0.7
with eric uh which were mainly renames
and also um essentially tidying up
the api a little bit in backwards and
compatible ways that we we had wanted to
do for months
so those are shipped now but i think
eric's gonna talk about that
i also did a bunch of reviews mainly
what i've been looking at today
is up a request from eric to
um add a new api to create nodes from go
so we had a package called fluent to do
this but it wasn't very nice
and it was it wasn't as fast as doing it
directly by hand
so we came up with a new way and i think
i refined it a little bit without making
it slower which might be a good idea
so i linked his version and my version
on top of his
if anybody wants to take a look um i
was also this morning poking at why go
ipfs is so darn heavy
so i've got a there's a project that i
contribute to that uses go ipfs and you
know
importing go ipfs from go means that you
import like a bunch of
protocol labs modules and i realized
that the binary was like 100 megabytes
so i started poking at that and it turns
out that ipfs itself is to blame for
quite a lot of it
um but i realized for example that uh
quick go uses a library called goj for
marshalling json for its logging
and goj is ways like over a megabyte
so i think that's pretty sad so i was
looking at that and poking martin about
it
um he said he benchmarked it against the
standard library's jason package in
february but he doesn't have that code
anymore
so he's going to get me that code in a
couple of days and that i want to
look at that because i'm pretty sure
that we could get
you know fast logging because the
logging is pretty simple without
needing to add such a heavy dependency
just for quick go
so anyway this is just to say i think go
ipfs are some heavy
indirect dependencies that don't belong
there
and i also just are fun over the weekend
did some analysis of like the most
popular
go modules on github so if anybody wants
to do anything that requires looking at
tons of go code either
you know you know for like analyzing a
go corpus of code or like how do go
people do this or that
you can use as a starting point to then
clone a bunch of repos
and look at them and that's it for me
okay yeah so um i didn't do it
a whole lot since our last meeting
i i i did work around this javascript
sequel stuff
i i almost made made a pull request to
just see more to change the sea walk
parser out but um
sort of ended up wasting a lot of time
doing
benchmark stuff trying to squeeze
performance out
i also got this package that bubbled up
out of it called
ipld jsibilty garbage which is just a
garbage data generator that makes
randomized objects that conform to the
data model
that's useful for testing and also
benchmarking
um and so my
like that's that's what i'll be working
on this week this
cbo stuff to get that done uh
i'm as i said the work is is done
except for performance tweaking
um when so
when comparing against our current
seabor
parser there's um
it's benchmarking is a little bit
complicated because it's
the currency where parser is um turns
out
it's really crappy for one-offs so if
you just use it as a decoder or encoder
just for a one-off
it's really bad but when you do it in
like a benchmark environment you're
doing a lot of
decodes and encodes and you when you use
it the way we use it in the codec
then it gets to do a lot of memory
tricks and so it ends up being quite
quite reasonable when you're doing a lot
of
encodes and decodes and so
so i'm straddling this line of not
wanting to use
the same tricks as our current symbol
parser which is
very the two problems are it becomes
a memory hog because it has
it one of the tricks it uses is to
allocate these large
buffers of memory and then just keep
them around
and um and so and then the other trick
it uses is it uses the
um uh the performance of
optimizations of the node buffer to
uh get some to squeeze out some edge
performance uh and i'm i'm
making this thing so it doesn't depend
on that when you're you when you're in
the browser
so straddling that line turns out to be
a little bit annoying in terms of
squeezing out the performance in
comparison
um so it's so i don't i don't have the
performance wins that i really wanted
uh except if i compare these things
in a um uh
doing one-offs um so i'm a little bit
disappointed about where that currently
is but i'm i'm currently doing a bit
more squeeze
and and i've got some additional nice
features coming out of this thing like
the ability to um
pull out this just the lengths of a
seaboard block without decoding the rest
of it
um i can do that so i was going to add
an a
a links method to the codec um so
instead of
like decode um
you could just do links and it would
just give you an array of
an ordered array of of the links as they
appear in the
blob and that might be an interesting
shortcut to add to other codecs to
where that's efficient you should have
haven't returned not just the links but
also the paths to the links
yeah you kind of need both like if you
look at the the links method in the new
in the new multi-formats codec stuff um
it iterates over it but it always gives
you the pads as well as the uh
the link yeah i guess for the use case i
want like i i'm using this for
the file coin data and it is it turns
out to
give me some nice performance benefits
just on decode but
what i really want is just to be able to
do a
a sort of a raw crawl and i don't really
want paths but i just want
i just want the links so because my
and so yeah i mean
because it's going to add overhead then
by getting doing parts because you've
got to do more way more decode but
yeah it's an interesting point yeah
that's true you'd have to keep
track of the state a little better as
well i mean i can see the use for both
um it's just most of the time
most of the time i do one of the paths
as well but if you would if you have a
use
no no no you need to actually like you
need to decode the strings of the map
keys in order
to to create the paths whereas if you're
just playing at the links you can
literally skip over all that
until you hit it yeah and once you get
into strings that's where everything
hurts
like strings is like strings from binary
is
this just the worst path for performance
so it's like once you go once you start
doing that you might as well just decode
the whole lot
that's that's the yeah that's the sort
of the performance vector we're getting
at here
um anyway so
the script is really good at them but
getting them to be strings
yeah yeah it's the bytes to
strings and then back again and utf-8
and it's just
anyway so like i wasted like a week on
this like in this
sort of fury of coding and benchmarking
and
in the end was way more disappointing
than i thought i would be
um anyway i will i'll get that done this
week
that's my mission this week done and uh
and
published at least in the initial form
and then uh
move on oh the other thing was the dag
codec
i say go code pb i've tagged that
as a version one done
um it works it's good and it's got the
new go test what is it the
github actions test stuff that martin
did
for go repos and that picked up that bug
from last meeting we talked about with
the int 64s
which has been fixed in go up yearly
prime and now merge back into
this and then that's all published and
done that works nicely and
yeah so good um that's me
um who's next eric
so i did a bad job at taking a break
i tried to spend a bunch of the last
couple of weeks building
new applications for fun and
the good news is that i legitimately
really wanted to use a bunch of our
ipld libraries and tools in order to get
stuff done
the arguably good news is
that it ended up spurring a bunch of
development work you know pld things so
i
actually in a way that's constructed for
ipld
um so
one interesting thing that we now have
in the go libraries is
there's a function in the traverse
package called focused transform
which helps you do point mutations to
existing documentaries
and so that function basically lets you
hand in
a node that is the root of some document
and a path that you want to do something
to
and then it will call you back with
whatever callback you give it and say
here's what i found in that documentary
at that position
and please tell me what you want to
replace it with and then it'll go
through and like
rebuild the rest of the documentary
around that in a copy on right way
and this works even if you have a path
that
jumps through several links in the
middle into other documents
it'll rebuild all of them so this is
something that had been on the roadmap
for ages and i actually wrote it now
and it has tests and i'm pretty sure it
works
so this lets you do point mutations even
in large
graphs and it'll do the right thing for
you
it should save a lot of work if you want
to manage documents like that
i also tried to make a more general form
of that which would let you
specify a bunch of point mutation
operations
and then the function would figure out
how to do that most efficiently
and that turned out to be a little bit
trickier so it ended up going back from
the design bin
um i ended up working on some stuff that
was really similar
to um there's a json patch rfc out there
and ended up with something very similar
to that
but actually implementing such a
multi-mutation
feature efficiently
turns out to be really tricky and i
wanted to make something that's more
efficient than
just do a sequence of point mutations
because of course you can do that in a
for loop and it's going to work
but like i want to go fast um
if somebody else wants to think on that
it would be really interesting
to see what we come up with the hard
parts that i discovered are
so if you want this to be optimal you
are going to
want to have this function where you
give it a list of the transformations
that you want to do
and then the function is going to look
at that and
do something kind of like query planner
type logic and figure out in which order
it wants to do it in order to be optimal
and then that gets really tricky because
not all the operations that you're
likely to want to do
are actually commutative so like
changing something in a map those
changes will generally be
commutable in the list because you're
changing the same map key silly
of course i can reorder these and not
change the semantics
or appending map keys is probably fine
but um okay let's say we want to append
to the end of the list
all right still fine let's say we want
to insert in the middle of a list
shoot not fine cannot do commuting of
this operation because it will change
the meaning of every other list index in
the rest of your instruction set
similarly list deletes don't actually
commute and so
then things just get really complicated
because you would have questions like
okay if i
if i have like a bunch of insert
operations that all say
zero so they frameshift the entire rest
of the list and then i do this thing
like can i
i think if you implemented fancy enough
logic you could make some of these
things commutable but then like
how much pre-processing do you want to
do to check that out versus like
and then you end up with edge cases like
oh this set of operations
is commutable if you're applying it on a
list but if you're applying it on a map
then it isn't or like vice versa
it got hairy so
i put that back in the design bin but if
somebody else wants to look and think
about that um
i think there's interesting stuff to do
there in the future
um i think danielle mentioned this but
he and i both started working on some
new helper functions for creating data
trees
in our go libraries a quick restatement
of the problem
here is in the go ipld prime library
we've got these node interfaces and node
assembler interfaces and they're
really rich and really powerful and they
very completely
model the domain of the ipld data model
and everything you can do with it
and because they're so complete they're
very verbose to use
and kind of a pain in the butt and so
we've always expected that we're going
to have these node apis
that are really rich and then we're
going to make some much terser usability
facades around them
and we started actually trying to make
more of those so
i've got a pr up with one and i think
dan's got a pr up with another one
um both of them are syntactically nicer
than things we're doing before and both
of them also
have a lot less overhead on benchmarks
than anything we've done before so
instead of having an awkward choice
between using one of our facades
and having tourist code but a
performance penalty
and then only potentially staring at a
rewrite in the future et cetera
we've come up with a couple of new
options that don't have performance
taxes so you can just
use them and it's probably fine so we're
still refining those
but that's exciting to have more options
for them
we tagged a release
we're really bad at holidays we tagged a
release of
the 0.7.0 in the godfield prime
libraries too
um i think both people who talked
already mentioned
this briefly already like ins have a
fixed size now technically a breaking
change
um a really small one that's really easy
to upgrade but um
daniel gave us said instructions for
migrating all of these things
basically automatically probably and
those are in the change log notes so
that should make upgrading really easy
the code gem now has support for
string prefix humans because i really
wanted to use those in one of my other
hobby projects this holiday so it's done
now
um and
i don't know some other coding stuff
that's too boring to bother talking
about out loud
that's it for me think string prefix
unions are defined in our specs anywhere
are they
maybe you need to do a pull request to
schema schema for that
by prefix is there
oh shoot you might be right well
okay uh peter you're up thanks
hello so uh for me the thing i have been
working on forever
is actually reality now uh there is
a database that does replicate
uh there is a link to a dog with which
there is
an actual set of credentials so you can
just log in
and this will be a replica that follows
an
actual lotus instance that actually
writes to database writes blocks
rights wrote all their links already
fished out
so you can actually do uh recursive sql
queries within the actual database and
get blocks out you know as
school trees like figure out how much
state weighs and so on and so forth
it also uh analyzes several tips that it
sees and breaks it down
into another set of tables with actual
chain
uh you know chain members where are the
messages where the states and so on and
so forth
so you can do full traversal
of the falcon chain without leaving your
esco council more or less
um caveat it is not
the full state it is from
362 500 block onwards so this
from about a week ago um
this will continue working uh needs a
few tweaks
to get it uh basically right now it
process a blow a chipset in about seven
seconds which
totally lets it uh keep uh keep up with
the chain
but it does not let me sing from zero to
have the entire thing
ever i need to speed up to about one one
second per tip set and then
within within a week we'll have the
entire thing
um performance of the actual queries
as i expected replication is as i
expected uh
the 600 gigabyte database got streamed
to a new host in about two hours
and basically just booted up uh and yeah
that's
uh all i have uh you know
logging kick kick kick the tires let me
know if something is missing or doesn't
doesn't look great and
yeah so yeah
so so you've got faster than badger so
is there potential for just for just
embedding
an embedded postgres in a future version
of lotus and just ditching badger and
that being the next upgrade for data
store
so for the archival ones this is
definitely what i'm using myself because
like the badger thing is impossible to
to to keep alive it requires much
feeding for
so what i have like it's it's certainly
in the talk but
uh very quickly it does way more than
keep track
it also for specifically for what you're
working on and you know and alex
norton's
ground it keeps a record
per tip set which blocks were read or
written
like it that's the granularity it has
like a huge log that just keeps writing
to keeps appending so you can
literally for a specific cid you can see
like
who needs the cid and got a full list of
you know where it was used and how
and there are like even epoch uh sorry
wall times
of how long between accesses and things
like that so it's
so it's super general on that on that
level and uh
obviously you don't need this for
regular uh for regular you know for
regular install
my thing for that is that if i get it to
a point where
it is exactly where i wanted to be
within like one second range or
something like that
uh instead of distributing this
ridiculous car files with
you know the snapshots that you need
them to import and so on and so forth
i can start distributing an sqlite
snapshot
which has just enough of the state for
you and you just insert
the sqlite thing which is just a file
into your
uh data directory and you just use that
going forward and because it is not like
it's a single node it doesn't need to be
super performant
it will be good enough i guess to
directly answer your question rod
more likely what you might expect is a
future version of lotus that has a flag
to allow a postgres back end
probably it won't run postgresql but if
you've got but
it you would be able to use the same
lotus code and a local postgres
and a flag to have that be your backing
data store rather than magic
neat cool work okay
michael
i'm back okay um yeah so
yeah had some really good code time uh
during my time off it's been great
um the big thing is that i wrote another
implementation of the trees that we've
been talking about for a while that
me and mikola had been working on this
implementation like obviously
having done it a few times was a lot
nicer and cleaner
and one thing that i realized
implementing this data structure is that
it's just a lot cleaner to implement if
you don't make some
like serialization the center piece of
the design if serialization is like a
thing that some of the types do
um but like there's just it actually
actually doesn't work very well if you
think about it just in terms of like
what the serialization paths are going
to look like
um so it's just like a much cleaner
implementation
of the tree and then on top of the tree
that implementation has
a bunch of data structures so there's a
sparse array um
a db index an ordered map um
uh a cid set some other things right um
so it really works and it's really
versatile that works in these different
scenarios
and it also works like if you add ipld
serialization into it as well
uh which is what it does right now um
so and then i use that to write uh ip
sql
like there's a it's a full sql
implementation um
there's some pieces of the syntax that
aren't there right now but like
you can create tables and there are like
full indexes of all the columns
um and like i have a csv importer so you
can take csvs and import them in
and now you have like this ipld-based
sql database
and when you do queries on it you only
pull in the parts of those data
structures that you need for those
queries
so i'm working on the demo piece of it
now where you kind of wire up some of
the network stuff
so that over the network we can do these
queries but like even for these
trustless queries over the network if i
want to just
you know look at one particular index
all i'm going to ever pull is the data
for that index and nothing else
and then i have that locally in cache
it's really really nice um and the more
time that i spend with it the more that
i realize that like
we can do a lot with this like beyond
sort of basic sql stuff like yes you
want to support all the basic sql
features and have regular tables and
columns and everything but
it's going to be pretty trivial to just
say oh here's how to add
a dag table and part of the dag table is
which paths do you want to index like
they're columns
and then you can just do regular sql
queries over those
columns over those indexes
and you get like all of the power of
sort of the sql query language when you
do it
um it's it's really really cool stuff um
so yeah i'm working on like
getting things a little bit more
polished up and demo-able um and then
from there it's just sort of like
a grind of knocking through the the rest
of the syntax right like i don't have
alter table yet
and you know i need to work on joins at
some point like stuff like that
there's a few more comparisons that i
need to implement but um sql as
a query language is really nice like
where where you set up some of the
combinations of different syntax
features and stuff is really sort of
well understood and predictable and so
it composes really really nicely into
into an implementation of the query
language so i was able to make way more
progress way faster than i thought
and and now it just works um
one sort of interesting thing that it
uncovered though is like
this contention in these advanced data
structures
between doing things in a streaming way
or doing them
in a in a fully concurrent way uh where
you you really have to pick one
um and so in the chunky trees
implementation like
um it has like become very common for me
to make my right interfaces just be
a generator so you do a mutation
operation
and that generator just returns you and
it iterates over all the new blocks and
the last block is the new root of
whatever the mutation that you did
um but i really had to put that down for
this because
um when you're doing big mutation
operations you can
really concurrently parallelize over
every part of the graph and every part
and every
like every part of the tree that you
work your way down is like another
concurrency vector
but in order to implement that cleanly
like you need to just use recursive
functions that you do parallel like you
can't you can't
map that into a generator cleanly um and
the same thing actually happens in the
reads like
you could do these iterative reads um
but it's actually
way more efficient to just take the
entire clear range query
and go down the tree for the the entire
um
acceptable range of the query and then
just place it all together at the end
so you're going to use more memory but
it actually works pretty well um
in athens sql i was able to kind of get
the best of both worlds a little bit
like
if you think about what um what a table
mutation is
you basically are you're mutating the
rows on the table which is a sparse
array
when you do that mutation you get back
the old values
and then you can update you can
basically kick off the updates for every
index and
concurrently and so what i have there is
like that mutation the
upper mutation operation is a generator
and so as i do the first mutation
i kick out those blocks and then as
all of the concurrent index mutations
return i also
emit all those blocks um so it gets kind
of the best of the world a little bit
where i'm not using up like an insane
amount of memory
um but it is like you know doing
everything
as concurrently as it possibly can um so
yeah yeah that's that's where that stuff
is at
um i think in a private call after we
finish
uh i want to talk a little bit about
some of the stuff that i encountered
trying to wire it up to ipfs and
and uh lit pdp um but we won't get into
that now we can kind of move on
um and who's next
chris you might be me all right guys
i've been uh
on vacation the last several weeks so
back now and really my goal right now is
to get the js craft sync
project transitioned over to the ipfs
team this week so
that is my update cool
yeah good um
okay so we've got a couple other items
on the agenda now so first one is this
i think daniel this is yours the um
in 64 for lengths in ipld prime
should we do that and i will confess
that this was an annoyance
when i was using it um and it did feel
like
maybe it should just conform to what len
uses
but you know it's not the end of the
world
yeah so actually i kind of changed my
mind in the past 20 minutes while i was
just listening and thinking to myself
which sometimes happens but my initial
thinking was if these high-level helpers
are just for like quick things or like
things where the performance is not the
top priority
then taking end is possibly okay because
for non-constants like lengths of
something which are quite common
it means simpler code but at the same
time i'm thinking
well but we also don't want to discord
using these for like actual
good purposes like big purposes and also
overflows and go are silent so if
something overflows it's not like you
would notice
um so i'm thinking yeah
forget i said anything
so hang on so the the flip sides are the
simpler code for non-constants but
what was the the points against i mean
yeah well if if i'm happily using the
wrappers
uh the high level helpers with ins not
in 64.
and then suddenly my code uses something
that's very very large
uh the overflow would be silent and go
nothing is going to warn you about it
so that would be a big no no
and you might have it it's the same
argument for explicitness
as for in 64 everywhere else yeah
and also you know even if the user knows
what they're doing
do you want to really encourage them to
use the 10 times more for bose
stuff just because they actually use
larger nodes which doesn't make a lot of
sense either
okay uh i met him is this something that
will sort of shake out with use that it
might be something that people complain
a lot about or that you get annoyed at
by using it a lot
and therefore you need to revisit it
like leave it as it is for now
and revisit it if it's a significant
annoyance in use
i suspect it's going to be moderately
annoying because using
anything that's not the
underspecified int in go is
moderately syntactically annoying but i
think
what would be worst is if we did a
mixture of them
that's just really high cognitive
overhead and really
really frustrating so going
uniformly within 64 across the board
seems like the safest choice at this
point and i
kind of doubt that we'll be forced to
revisit it
it will be probably perceived as
moderately unfortunate
forever but it'll be one of those things
where every time somebody
looks at it and reviews it again they'll
be like oh
yeah yeah that's how it's got to be
is is is there is there an argument
space here where
when somebody will come along and say
well for lengths you really should be
using you in 64.
as long as you're doing a custom int
link in type
on that one i think people come around
and say things a whole bunch
okay so leave it as it is for now at
least
uh yeah on uh just a note on the int
versus you and
um the reason actually go is using
interlock of these places it's not
because like in c they have to signal
minus one things like that
but because the overflows are not simple
an overflow on the u end is really
catastrophic
on our phone and then just gives you
something negative that no nothing
understands and everything breaks
so that's a thing to keep in mind
right so if we do if we have anything
with a length that's greater than
n64 okay yeah
i know there's a silly variation on that
if you have
n64 you can use minus one as something
that's definitely invalid
which you don't have an option in un-64.
okay my opinion on this is at some point
these things become bit strings instead
of
actual numbers if you're worrying about
these edge cases
you have already become aware that these
are bit strings and you are not treating
them as numbers anymore
and so if that's the life that you've
chosen fine then it's a 64-bit
bit string and enjoy i don't care if
it's negative or not that's your problem
well well speaking of that leads us
perfectly into the next item
which is ieee 754 leakage into the data
model
um there's issue three uh for two
in the specs repo um
which is a really interesting one so
this is you know the ieee
754 defines infinity negative infinity
and then
as as as things that are valid in
like you get them when you have floats
and then they use it
for 7x4 and there's a binary format for
them and so c
board bakes it into the spec as well and
so both our cbor
codecs use they give you these free so
in go and in javascript these will do a
round trip
smoothly and per spec um so this issue
started with somebody saying well hey
can we add this to jason
and there's a proposal for doing it like
we've got bytes and links
um and so then so the discussion then is
about okay well
then we have to confront this thing and
say
is is it something we explicitly support
is it something you just happen to get
free by a codec that supports ieee 754
in some way or is it in some other space
um so there's i've tried to
lay out the various questions that need
to be resolved for that
we don't need to resolve it today but
engagement in that issue would be good
but if anyone's got any thoughts they
want to drop in
now we can have a quick discussion about
it
i think i agree with eric that we should
just reject them
like they're they're less
agreed upon between languages than
anything else that we support
and it's just it feels really painful to
try and
um deal with them like because cross
format is not going to work right like
there's going to be
like we can't do it in json so it's
json's out unless we want to do
more crazy type customization than we
already have we hate it
so i i don't think that we want to do
that
but we have a precedent for bytes and
links and which is what that issue is
is proposing so it's not impossible it's
just
messy and it's like it's like if you
accept these things it's almost as if
they become top level kinds
but is it a given that every language
has a consistent type for infinity and
man
man in particular i i would be surprised
about like i don't think that every
language has a man
i think so if you support 754
these are these are baked into it
so i think they come along with the cake
is everyone 754 compatible probably not
well that's the thing is is that this is
not seven five four is like we don't
when we say float at the moment anyway
we're not saying this is seven five
four it's just it's just it just so
happens there's this alignment
with seven five four in dark sibor
that's really
that's where we're at is that there's
this overlap and so it's like this
this venn diagram where it's mostly
overlapping but when
we could take we could just jump all in
and say well when we say float we mean
7x4
or we could just say when we say float
we mean these things
where you put a dot in a number
um and that's it and what happens in the
codec happens in the codec
[Music]
and we don't recommend you use them it's
really we need to we need to get that
out and say look this is
this is not recommended for these
various reasons
i mean there are formats that like we
want to be able to use in ipld that
don't have these types
um right like like json um yeah and
if we know that that's an issue then i
said we just kind of punt on them
so i would also like to just flat out
read
the definition of ieee 754 nan
from wikipedia because
it is worse than you think
the sign bit may be either zero
or one the biased exponent must be all
one bits but the fraction component
can be anything except
all zero bits because all zero bits
would represent infinity
so how many
bitwise not equal values are there
which are an ieee 754
nan i don't know a [ __ ] of a lot that's
how many
that's crazy yeah
can we do ipld hard
no hard no man we actually have to
say no to that index keyboard just for
determinants of issues like
like we can't have people getting
different hashes for the same data
does narrow it down to just one but
there's just one way of doing that
right you could have a canonical
representation
they do do that though okay you made it
sound like they're just pointing at like
754 and saying that's our float and like
that's where we get man from
and not like actually saying oh no no
like specifically man is only this
binary form yeah no it's just
i think the 754 spec does uh specify
bit layout simply because it's like it's
it's to do with how you do with
arithmetic with it and
all that sort of stuff whereas sibor
comes down to well there are these three
specials
and these are the these are the bytes
that you encode them as
essentially okay okay
that's good so it's compliant i guess
rather
it's less terrifying than i thought it
would be but that's still like
i feel like that that's still like a
feature of seabor that we don't have
something in other formats to do
also just like philosophically and
conceptually like it
it really bugs me that you can serialize
infinity
like i don't know what about my brain
hates that
but like no that's not like a real thing
that we've agreed upon
i don't know you can write it down if
you can write it down isn't that enough
i mean like it's like the string
infinity
consistency in a way that like infinity
is a conceptual number value
is just not um
i think if you if you push on that then
you end up having the same problem with
floats in general
just encoding floats
for a lot of reasons is weird um
yeah i i feel like those issues are less
that like we don't have a mathematical
model for what a float is it's just that
like our computing model for floats is a
little weird
like the way that we have to do math on
them and computers is actually difficult
it's not that like literally in
mathematics we have not agreed upon like
the the best way to treat this right
okay so okay so michael you might want
to put your vote into that issue there
so that we can
we can uh angle towards a resolution for
that
it does sound like that i i i was
leaning towards
more uh leaving it maybe in an undefined
space it's like
there's codex that will do this so you
shouldn't rely but codex that won't so
you shouldn't rely on it
um but i you know
maybe this is an area where we just need
to be clear because we it's like in
uh at the moment you can encode
undefined
in dagger js taxi ball but
um but go ipld prime and
then go uh dixie ball will
reject that on d code because it doesn't
know what it doesn't know what to do
with it
so we've got this problem with undefined
already that i was i was i'm in the
process of fixing i'm going to reject
undefined as something that you can
encode it's just going to
go but that's in a similar space where
there's this
thing that you can do but maybe you
shouldn't
so maybe we should rule it out i'm also
just like
we tend to talk about these things as
like how do they map onto
existing formats and languages but
another thing that we need to keep in
mind is
how do these affect us as we build more
native formats
like i i do think that we're going to
have more block formats
like being engineered as we move forward
um some of
them you know being much more customized
to particular use cases
and the the more things you have to
implement the harder that will be
and the more surface area for bugs and
it consistencies to just keeping things
smaller rather than bigger seems better
to me especially when they're areas that
we know are going to be difficult
to do compatibility on
agreed as long as it doesn't impact too
heavily on
the likelihood that people will use our
stuff
if it's not in json i have a hard time
believing that people
are using it so much that it's a
non-starter for us not to have it
yeah yeah and and mostly these that
these values are they're always used as
just
these symbols these tokens that you use
for
sort of edge cases of things and you can
use anything as a token like make
yourself a special string like it's
okay uh anything else before we
stop the recording and i i uh
i did a little bit of of poking at some
stuff over the
you know over people's time off and
um so i mentioned this to you guys a
while ago
but um the ability to
basically download a large block
um in increments by just downloading it
backwards if it's shot two if it was
shot three and anyone was using shot
three you could use a merkle tree but if
it's shell one or shot two
it's a streaming hash and so you can
download it backwards
um
another thing i was i was thinking about
this was
that so hannah put up a proposal
recently
um around sort of graph sync and bitswap
to grab
to basically use graph sync to grab uh
to grab a manifest of all the blocks
in a file and then just send those over
to bitswap and then grab all the blocks
in parallel
from whoever this is exactly what i just
figured out that i need to do for ipsql
actually
is like it's it's using rpc instead but
it's literally like
do the query and then tell me all of the
blocks that you
that corey needed and then i will ask
you for the ones that i don't have
right all right so so this was so
so this is uh interesting and what it
what could what it sort of reminded me
or pointed out to me is
for a while my understanding was bitswap
has had this like
has been in these restraints which is
the reason why
we have a one with the reason why we
have a block size at all
right why have a block size the reason
they have a block size
is so that you don't download an
arbitrary amount of garbage before
realizing that it's garbage
but that's a lie because graphsync
does that in fact it's the only way you
can do it
if i have like a a linear history or a
blockchain or whatever if i have to go
one block at a time there is no protocol
in the world you can write that will
make this fast
the only way it works is if i download
multiple blocks at a time
and i just verify them when i get the
chance
right if you're if your pipe is faster
than my cpu then you just send me more
more garbage and i'm okay with that um
and then if you're going to be okay with
this then you have to set some
parameters like
how much garbage is okay right how much
trust am i willing to have is it one
megabyte of trust is it a gigabyte of
trust
does it scale based on the fact that
you've sent me 100 good megabytes in the
past
right those are things that i don't know
we just like the hardest problem in bit
swap because it was impossible
we just sort of ignored and we're like
graph sync it fixes all our problems and
like no we just skipped the answer
um which is fine if we're all on board
with that
that's not the case so so i want to
unwind a couple things so one is that um
in a graph sync request
um there's a deterministic ordering to
the request
so there's actually a deterministic
order to the blocks and so
if you're getting them one at a time you
actually can validate them one at a time
that they're required for the receipt
because you would
because you would literally be asking
for them sure but i receive
10 blocks when i've only had time to
validate the first block
so so i've downloaded nine blocks that
are in theory garbage
before i realize the first block is bad
that is only because of the way that the
protocol is implemented
no you can't do it a different way
without being slow
no no i can start the query locally
before
before i get any response from a remote
and so when the first block comes in i
can decode
that and i know what my next block get
is
like literally synchronously before i
even ask for the next block
which would be when the next block comes
off the network um
if like so so you actually you you
should be able to
never keep a decoded block in
like buffering um it may be the case
the network has a bit of a buffer going
on while you're processing some of them
but like in your code you if you could
literally have it be that like if i get
a block before i've asked for it that's
invalid and kill the connection
the reason you can't do that is because
the way the graph sync is implemented is
on like
separate streams for different control
flows and
uh and the way you have to wrap that on
top of itself
it like it literally just defies
streamings
like like there's no way to like set up
the flow control so that i know if i
needed to block it or not you literally
just have to defer everything
and so like that's like that's why it's
implemented this way and that's why we
have this problem but like
in theory you should not have this
problem if the protocol was engineered
better
you would be able to to never keep a
block and buffer
i mean this isn't true though like
imagine i have like a 100 exabyte per
second
pipe and i'm running my graph sync
program on a ti-83
i will receive more data than i can
process in time
like it's just it's like fundamentally
this doesn't hold on
like watch the whole control what's the
whole control flow okay
you get 100 megabytes into your network
driver okay
the network driver like sends the cisco
um that says like hey i've got data here
your program pulls off the data off of
the network and decodes the first block
it it now hands the first block to you
and when you decode the first block
you synchronously decode that block into
c bar traverse it you know what your
next block get is
you start your next block get into it
into like some kind of defer the future
pattern saying like
give me this once it's processed before
you have
any ability to process the next block
yet
so like like if you are actually
streaming the blocks and yielding them
into the program
as they get streamed out out of that out
of that buffer you literally do end up
in a state where like yes the network
driver might be
buffering a lot of garbage but your
program's memory doesn't
you you can actually if you have the
control flow you can do this
we break the control flow so this is not
true for any of our programs
so you can basically ignore what i'm
saying but like if we did this right
this would not be like you could do this
and
and to add to that the way the reason we
have a block limit is not for
uh the garbage in general is so that in
the individual block that you can hash
and you can pull for the links out of is
within a bounded time
because otherwise the very first block
that i sent you might be a petabyte of
data and you never know where discussion
is
but what so
those things are related right you're
yes but they're different well i i would
i argue that it's not as distinct as
you're making them
because your your network like
my machine is downloading the data it's
getting it's getting like
it is making its way through my router
which is the expensive part
not the shying on
my my side is not well but
well but your router will start dropping
them
when there is enough back pressure on
the actual hardware level
even utp yeah eventually yes eventually
blocks will start
will start dropping right but and that
but this is the constant right so there
is a constant
which is how much garbage am i willing
to download before everything falls
apart
and we were assuming that we could set
that in software and just say one meg
but like not really
right yeah yeah the one mech does not
protect your network second protects
your
uh your uh process memory space that's
what it does
yeah yeah right so if you wanted to do
that
if you choose to do this thing where you
download a whole petabyte but you
download it backwards
you can incrementally set your memory
thing to still be one meg
and you still download the whole thing
because just like
with the graph sync thing where you're
sort of trusting ahead of time
to get a bunch of data but then you're
verifying it when it comes in
you can do the same thing with this so
a couple things one is like um i i
i agree with you that like this
particular thing does not do that and
that is something that we say that it's
for
um but there's a bunch of other stuff
too like a lot of decoders
work serially so you're gonna want some
block size maybe not a megabyte but some
block size
um there's a lot of reasons actually to
keep block smalls
keep block small just outside of all of
this right like all these data
structures that we're mutating all the
time like we actually do want to keep
the block sizes reasonably small so that
we can cut down on the mutations right
so as far as like the protocol design
goes we're always going to
need a way to do efficient like lots of
blocks efficiently
right um even if we get out of some of
this other stuff
lastly i love the idea of of getting
them backwards so that you can stream
the d code but you but this would also
require
that you eat a mem copy to reverse
the buffer before you write it to the
socket
and so you're going to eat an extra mem
copy for every block that you want to
send
using any protocol that relies on them
coming in backwards and then when you
get them you're going to have to do
another mem copy when you reassemble it
well either way so what i was thinking
was you would
so there's like sort of the next thing
of this which is if you assume you can
have large blocks
what you might say is that there is a
very common scenario
where you have multiple ways of
describing the same data
one of which is as a single large block
and the others as a tree of small blocks
right this is like files right
and so i can store
the file data as a sequence of small
blocks so i download the block i
downloaded the
you know one terabyte block backwards
as small pieces that all live in my
block stores individual pieces
but then i've strung them together with
metadata and so i can say oh
i get to i have this file
it's chunked up this particular way but
also you can have the file as a single
block
which means that if someone requests the
file from me as a single block
this works so i can go to the canonical
website
find the sha 256 of the ubuntu iso
search for it on ipfs and someone will
be able to send it to me
because there is a way to
deterministically go from this one
large block to me and even to do it in
parallel
i mean isn't that kind of what a car
file is like there's a little bit of
extra stuff in the header but it's
basically what a car file is
except that the identifier is this
is this identifier that's like everybody
already agrees on
well but for your for your ubuntu iso
want the changing cap to be pre-agreed
on
the same way yep no there's no chunking
this is the
so so part of this yeah there's zero
construction
there's zero chunking it's shot two of
the whole file
yeah but but for people to be able to
stream it to you
uh securely so i can actually choose
as the client i can ask you to stream it
to me in whatever way i want
for instance i can say i want you to
start sending me small pieces
and then as i trust you more i want to
start you sending me bigger pieces
like i can choose the the construction
if i want to so you almost want to send
the the checking strategy as a client
and the the you know the provider will
check it this way
and send it back to you yeah that's
that'll be nice but
i don't know if we're there yet well so
it's not the thing is that i don't even
think it's
like that i mean the things that you
would need to do to make this happen
right
are you need a way when you add files
when you add when you you know add files
to ipfs you would need to store
a second dag right
which is or a second like metadata sort
of thing which says hey this is the hash
when i string
all of these together and here's the
list of the pieces that go to them
and then i would need bitswap to know
that it can ask for this like virtual
object
i mean it doesn't it doesn't work well
for mutations but oh no it sucks for
mutations but there's a lot there's a
lot of data that we don't actually
mutate
um and it's not to say you can still
store it as a graph right because the
individual pieces at the bottom of the
thing
are just one form of it right i can
still have them chunked up however i
want
so but i how useless though right
because if you
when you have text data you want to use
like ideally you want to use some kind
of chunker like raven
where you get better you get better
semantics when you mutate it
when you have data formats that are
effectively binary formats that don't
mutate well
you probably want a data type specific
chunk of it
so that like the it's already chunked up
into blocks and you're going to get
bull blocks essentially as you might
want to seek around the file or hand it
off to a decoder
so like if it's a video file you want it
around the keyframe boundaries because
that's like
the unit that everybody will always need
um or
or potentially like you know in in
certain zip files and stuff like that
like you can actually bounce around and
seek and do it
um if you chunk it up appropriately um
so like a lot of these formats actually
just have ideal chunkers and you would
want to do it variably sure anyway
you so you'd want to the advantage here
is like
backwards compatibility with the rest of
the internet
right everyone who hashes a file you can
now just
search the hash on ipfs and see if you
find it and
the other one is that i have i can now
like change my chunker without it being
a total game over scenario
there's still going to be an op there's
still maybe an optimal chunker and we'll
still be able to like
you know share the cid that includes the
graph with the chunker stuff
but there is a canonical representation
for files
i mean like we should just put the hash
of the whole file
in the file metadata anyway right like
there's no reason not to if we have it
like it's a useful thing to have around
if you want to compare to other
uh files and like it's going to be
insecure the same way that the length is
insecure
like people can fake it um but like
we already have a precedent for that
like we already have another property
that has that
so but it doesn't help me find it right
download it it's no it doesn't it does
um like you but
you just put a record in the dht for
that and then like people find you and
they go like hey do you have a file with
this hash and you go yes and then you
stream it to them
then you download a terabyte of data and
then you don't know what it is right
like you need this
you need you need this way of like
verifying you're not downloading an
unlimited amount of garbage
right it's like a fixed amount
and then the question becomes which cash
do you publish is it always chat to 56
yeah that is it's always it's always
chat to 256. like that's the thing that
everybody has
i mean it's the one i would say it's
like this it is the one that is the ipfs
default right so that you have a
canonical thing and if everyone decides
you know if ipfs is shot too and then
later on we switch to like you know
sha64 then
everyone all of a sudden starts
publishing using shot 264 as the
canonical one
because that's the canonical one that
everyone's using now
well everybody helps us all everybody
unlocks is already publishing unix
surprise
blake so you know oh yeah yeah
this conversation also reminds me of
something kind of crazy that i should
bring up
um so this is like very early stages
like
basically a friend of mine who does a
lot of web standards work um reached out
because he's starting to work on some
stuff that is like kind of
in the space that we that we're in um
what he essentially wants to do is that
he he wants to make bundler performance
in the browser like a lot better
um so that you can get like you can sync
bundles you can get just
kind of the parts that have changed in
the bundle so the bundle maintains some
understanding of what files that came
from and stuff like that
and so and to do this by like basically
adding a lot of
like um code to the tools that create
the bundles
as well as the browser and have kind of
the transport and everything in between
be pretty
simple and stay the same um but like as
we're sort of
like what he's landing on is like oh
yeah this is what merkle trees are for
like clearly like this is like what you
do with a merkle tree when you want to
do this kind of structure
and so we've been batting around some
ideas but like um
i think one place that it might end up
is
there probably some kind of a manifest
file for this at some point so that like
bundlers can reprocess really easily
and i think that we should we would
probably be able to
create a inaugural codec
for that manifest that would surface
a data model representation that
conformed to whatever we want unix of
the cp2 to be
so these could literally like these
manifest could be valid files and all
the links and then be the
hash links to to the rest of the file um
and we could like
effectively like interrupt with what the
browser is doing through the codec layer
um because they're not gonna do exactly
unix fs like they can't
um so one of the things with
with this that was like when i when i
brought this up like whatever it was a
couple months ago or something
um the
thing i was concerned about was like i
didn't know how i was going to describe
these objects um like this download the
file backwards object
and and so this approach says like it's
just
don't care about it as an ipld thing
care about it as like a network
transport thing um
which which does circumvent a lot of
those issues but
it comes with its own things like it
means all of a sudden like bitswap has
to know about how to
break up a shot two thing and it has to
know how to break up
a shot one thing for for each hash
function
i just do a new protocol like i wouldn't
try to
whatever i don't care whatever whatever
you call the protocol i don't know
yeah yeah i mean bit swap is like not
like
like that difficult to disappoint right
um and once you start adding so much
optionality like the the ease of it
kind of goes away it's like not really
really useful i mean to be fair
a bit swap is like a trivial protocol
with
all of the sessions stuff so if you
could extract the sessions out of
bitswap
then bitswap would be like 12 lines of
code i mean it
it says i have block please give me
block right
all of the intelligence is in the
sessions um
so whatever you want to call it right
it's just here is protobuf with options
please send me back protobuf with data i
just wish i had that library that does
just that thing that you're talking
about like that that in javascript is
actually just not a thing that you can
do
you you can't use the bitsoft
implementation without like taking on
sort of all of the infrastructure
or like half of the infrastructure
although js bitswap doesn't have
sessions
so i don't understand no no it's not
it's it's like you gotta take in the
block store and you've gotta interact
like
like it doesn't it's not like hey like
here is a block tell me when you get
asked for blocks like there's no
interface like that
it's like no you you conform to our
block store abstraction and then you
wire up the block store to this thing
okay yeah the other
part of this discussion that has been
i've seen thrown out a couple times
is the can we have these custom chunkers
as webrtc
or as as wasom modules that get packaged
with
data so the data somehow links to its
own decoder
and now you've got generic decoders uh
rather than
having that need to have be a predefined
set in your standard library
actually more streams for for flexible
bad layout you don't need the coders you
need an
encoder to basically tell ahead of time
what it's dag
what's its root cad is going to be
the the advantage being i mean yeah
obviously like yeah if you know what the
if you know how to do chunking
that's that's good but where are you
gonna put the chunking in for like are
you gonna distribute that
with your cid like where why
why do i no no you you just you you link
to it in whatever the root of the data
is so yeah it just says this is how to
decode the rest of the odd data file
right so so like one of the things that
makes it really useful right it's like
say it's say it's rabin
right say it's just the raven chunker
with with some settings
um if that's at the root of my file then
uh if i'm
if if i take that file from you and i
mutate it i know how to rechunk it up
ideally and i actually have the program
to rechunk it without
you know including those external
dependency or anything
um but once we get there with this
thought of there being code associated
with
um content which is already potentially
a thought you could imagine rather than
saying okay we're gonna have this
metadata of
the shot 256. of the overall file being
this extra field and maybe we'll have
those in the dht that you could have
arbitrary identifiers
going to something about the
format that's associated with them
so that there's you know when you have
that
256 of ubuntu that you are
looking for what that could be pointed
to
is the manifest that has that shot 256
uh but also the validator
like code that helps you do smart
decoding um based on that format and
gives you some verification does the
coding because
you need to yeah it needs to be
verifiable right so
the the key with the the the downloading
backwards and like you can you can
move the blocks around a little bit but
like the key with with that
is that i can tell you how i want the
data
and then you send it back to me in a way
i can verify
right so having a manifest of all the
blocks doesn't
really help me unless the manifest comes
and it looks exactly like the form i'm
expecting it to
and then i can start downloading blocks
and verifying them bit by bit
but i can't verify them it's like um
they're existing just the other thing i
wonder here is
is there not a compact and efficient to
verify
zero knowledge proof that could link to
things so that you could provide also a
proof that the two the sha-256
is equivalent to so yes
do that translation without getting the
whole metadata chunk
in in an efficient way and and skip all
the original discussion
yeah dean i think you did forget one
important point here though which is
that like
if you have a really large file and you
have just the shot two of it you can
validate the entire file going backwards
no matter how you get the chunks
but only if you only get them from one
party you won't really be able to very
efficiently get them from multiple
parties because you can only
because you can only invalidate one
piece at a time as you work the way
backwards over it
like that's why this is where the graph
sync but this is where like the graph
sync knowledge
or understanding that we are already
taking in extra blocks comes in which is
i just
set my parameter which is i'm willing to
download
10 blocks of garbage at a time right
and then i can parallel i can i can ask
you know i ask will for a manifest for
the next 100 blocks and then i just
shoot out to everybody around me 10 at a
time
yeah i mean and i build up more and more
over time
as i trust will's manifest more and more
because the first hundred blocks look
fine so why wouldn't the next hundred
blocks look fine
so i i remember a lot of these
discussions happening in bittorrent when
the protocol was still being engineered
and like a lot of this kind of stuff
came up and there's a lot of
optimizations that you can make and a
lot of experiments that people did
and like where i i don't remember all of
the exact reasoning and if it's still a
pr
live so maybe it's outdated and we
should reevaluate it but like
i do remember this general learning that
there was just like
look if you keep the blocks small and
you have smaller
just units of validation um everything
else gets easier
and trying to do anything below that
validation or trying to increase the
validation
you end up with all these other long
tail concerns especially once you're
under attack
i mean that's another thing too is like
a lot of this stuff started happening
and becoming much more important as the
network was more under attack where
people were trying to do negative things
and
giving you some good blocks before they
would give you bad blocks and stuff like
that like you know you you had
like the npa and other actors like
intentionally trying to you know poison
the network
um so yeah yeah i mean although like
again
everything is like we'll say like
trade-off dependent like maybe if i'm
willing to say like okay
i'll just do like geometric growth and
i'm willing for half my blocks to be bad
if someone's actively attacking me they
have to give me half of the file i want
before they can send me
an equal amount of bad bits i don't know
i mean if you look at this from the
point of view of file coin right it's
like
you're doing the incremental payment
channel so you rip like this this bad
block size thing
like it's very low like um
yeah like this would be
um like so the incremental payment
channel you're only
paying for the blocks that you validate
through the graph search
sync request so you can't actually allow
the buffer to get too large
because um then they'll actually just
stop sending you data
um if you if you haven't been sending
them acknowledgements because you stop
paying yeah yeah yeah
it becomes i mean things become both
easier and harder with payments
um so
it's so that's like a separate a
separate issue
but this is just like i don't know i
just i i guess i found it slightly crazy
that like
if if grabsing is willing to sit there
and like
eat up the and just have this like
segregated block store of quarantined
blocks that it's waiting to verify
i'm like then like we can do all these
things in bitswap
and it's like so easy don't look to that
as like the
the oh no they can do that so it's fine
like it's not fine
like it's it's really not like there's
tons of bugs in this and like problems
and like you know like it's really slow
right now
and um the lack of flow control in
streams is really hurting
it's really hurting performance like um
and nobody thinks that it's a great idea
it's just like the only way that we
could get things to work right now
like i would not like baseline decisions
on on this existing
like it should really go away like it
should get fit yeah like again i linked
it to this like set of issues that i and
michael wrote
all about like we cannot do all these
things now
but those aren't related i mean those
are related to
you know some of the some of the
interfaces and requirements this is just
like
at some level i have to be able to
download
more data at once more data has to be
i mean if the again like if the latency
if the latency is really long
you have to start sending me blocks even
before i've
verified that i actually want them right
maybe i can ignore some of them when i
get there depending on how big my
buffers are in my network in my os
and my program but like you have to
start sending me data before i'm ready
for it
and so we can take a similar approach in
bitswap
well but the client the client is never
protected from you sending data the
client the only thing the client can do
if you send that data is sever the
connection
so all that's happening is that like the
client can send you bad data
until you realize it and it severs the
connection um and whatever you the
longer that you make that
buffer like the more that it's going to
be attacked the
longer that we doing that in this um
yeah yeah um
yeah anyway um can we stop the recording
now um because i just
this dovetails into a thing that i just
want to talk about i'm proud a little
bit
um
you said something wrong but then but
you're muted so i didn't hear it
i was just going to say if there's any
questions on youtube but there's not so
we